Ready to use Model Context Protocol9MCP) Server for Scoring

Preamble:
The development of mcp tools for model builders (or other SAS products) is an exercise best left to the R&D folks an is beyond my scope.

This mcp server is for sas users who want to take advantage of mcp server for the IP they have built using SAS Viya.

In the previous two postings, I introduced a MCP server and some examples.
But to try it, you had to clone the project - usually a barrier to busy folks.

So the first step to removing this barrier is a cli to run the mcp server.

A cli is now available to try a working mcp server. This mcp server has the following tools


 MAS
    listModels: list models -- will list models published to MAS
    modelInfo: describe <model> -- will retun the expected input values
   -modelScore: score <model> - score the specified model. The input is a string of comma delimited values
 SCR
   scrInfo: describe a scr model at specified url
   scrScore: score scr model at specified url. The input is a string of comma delimited value
Tables
   listTable: list tables in a specified lib in either cas or sas server
   readTable: read one or more records from  a specified tables


Follow these basic steps to see how an mcp server can help you.

Step 1: Start the mcp server
Issue this command from any shell on your desktop
npx @sassoftware/mcp-serverjs@latest

To stop the server simply press CTRL C


Step 2: Enabling github copilot for the mcp server

Similar methodologies can be used with other mcp enabled copilots.

Go to the vscode settings and search for mcp. Then select Model Server Context Protocol. Edit its config json

Add the following to the list of mcp servers


 "Viya-Models-MCP-Server": {
    "type": "http",
    "url": "http://localhost:8080/mcp"
 }

The name can be anything you like.


Step 3: Create tokens for your favorite Viya Server

This mcp server works similar to sas viya cli commands. So use the following command to create the necessary token and refresh token. You need to do this once every 90 days or whenever the refresh token expires.

create a default auth Profile
Issue this command and follow instruction: sas-viya profile ini
create token with this command and follow the instructions
sas-viya auth loginCode

 

Step 4: Go to your Copilot and start interacting with the mcp server
See below for a full session






 
